[singing voice] Aniplex.
[blades clanging]
[grunts]
[both grunting]
[breathing heavily]
Pathetic.
Pathetic, pathetic, pathetic!
I can't even stand
to look at you!
Do you realize
how stupid this is?
Do you?
[Archer] You, a hero of justice?
That's really what you want?
You know how absurd that is,
so why can't you admit
you're wrong?
True justice is the result
of order.
Salvation for all
is totally different
from your own salvation!
Not only that,
they're completely incompatible!
The more you strive
for the total salvation of all,
the more you'll be consumed
by your own contradiction!
You'll end up a mere murderer!
If you can't see that,
then die.
Be crushed alongside
your precious ideals,
burnt out without ever
achieving them!
If you die,
a mistake such as myself
will vanish into the mist.
I will wipe out every trace
of your life
with my own two hands.
This I swear!
[grunts]
[blades clang]
[Saber] They are beginning
to mesh.
If this keeps up,
Shirou is certain
to catch up to him.
However...
[Aimer's "Brave Shine"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Brave shine ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Stay the night ♪♪
♪♪ You save my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Your brave shine ♪♪
[flames crackling]
[coughs]
[grunts]
[blades clanging]
[both grunting]
[Archer] Son of a bitch!
[groaning]
[both grunting]
[grunts]
[Archer] Why am I bothering
with a fair fight?
I know I could
finish him easily.
But if I do that,
I sense that I
will have been defeated
in something crucial,
and I can't accept that!
[both grunting]
No, I'll finish this!
[groaning]
[Archer] He's already dead
on his feet.
This is it.
How can I be so foolish?
How many times do I have
to see it end like this?
He'll never give up.
He'll never reach his limit.
[Shirou groans]
[Archer] In fact,
he's long since surpassed it.
[grunts]
[Archer]
He's completely obsessed
with taking down his opponent,
but it's not me that he's trying
to kill anymore.
I know it.
I know that ragged look of his.
It's all too familiar.
I recognize the man as well.
One whose spirit
has never been broken.
Who's never been beaten
and never succumbed.
Though the weight
of it threatened
to crush him,
he never lost his dream
of saving everyone
and insisted on carrying
the burden alone.
I know this man.
[gears clang]
If only there was a way.
If only he could save everyone
who suffered, he thought.
He might find a purpose
for his miserable existence.
[groans]
[Saber] Shirou is attempting
to slay the part of himself
that would block the path
to his ideals.
To stay true to what he
has always believed in.
What he will continue
to believe in.
And Archer is attempting
to undo the self that gave rise
to what he has become.
To erase the mistakes
that he is doomed
to someday repeat.
Once,
I had two paths.
Both were correct.
Both of them had merit.
But the outcome
of the one I chose
was not what I had hoped for.
If I was left filled
with regret even then,
as long as I could achieve
my ideals...
[grunts]
[Archer] He knows he can't win.
He knows this fight
is meaningless,
yet he remains defiant.
The very mistake
I once made myself.
Still he fights.
Why?
[whooshing]
In the end,
it doesn't matter.
Your hope will someday
betray you as mine did!
[clanging]
[groans]
[breathing heavily]
That's too bad.
Your spirit outlasted your mana.
Now it's the only weapon
you have.
In any event,
the battle of Shirou Emiya
is about to end.
Yeah, I get it.
You're right.
My wish really is fake.
[groans]
[Shirou] But there's
something beautiful about it.
[gasps]
[Shirou] Putting others
before myself is hypocritical.
I understand that.
Still, I couldn't help
but admire the idea.
I thought how great it would be
if I could live like that.
Even if my life was a sham.
There was still beauty
in that wish,
in doing whatever I could
to make others happy.
I won't let that go.
Even if it is foolish,
I won't give it up.
I don't care what you say.
I don't care if I'm a fraud
or a hypocrite,
'cause I know my dream's not
a mistake!
[dramatic music]
[winces]
Go to hell!
♪♪ ♪♪
[grunting]
[Shirou] It's not...
It's not...
My dream is not a mistake!
I'll become a hero for you.
Just leave it to me.
I'll make your dream come true.
[Archer] This is cruel.
Forcing me to look into
an old mirror.
There really was such
a man once.
[gasps]
It's over, Archer.
I've won.
Yes, I suffer defeat once again.
[squelches]
[groaning]
[breathing heavily]
‐ [Rin] Shirou! Archer!
‐ [both gasping]
[panting]
[gasps, chuckles]
[Rin] Are you okay?
Archer, you look terrible.
What happened?
I guess I'm too sentimental.
[Archer] If she had only been
a little more callous,
I never would have reverted
to my old self.
Either way,
the matter is settled,
and now that
I've acknowledge him,
the hero can't remain here.
Not any longer.
The defeated should take
their leave immediately.
[Shirou] No, wait!
[gasps]
Archer!
[blow lands]
[groans]
[gasps]
[groaning]
[Gilgamesh]
That was most entertaining.
A pointless fight between
two utterly fake people.
But how?
It can't be!
How long has it been, Saber?
Ten years?
Well, then.
[Gilgamesh] Do you
finally understand?
That is the weight
of the genuine article.
Imitate the shape
and power all you like,
but they're still
just imitations.
It makes me sick
to see careless forgeries
crafted by fakes.
Scum.
Frauds who are only
poor imitations
of others should be destroyed,
incinerated like
the trash they are.
It's up to you...
[Archer] To defeat him.
[booming]
[Shirou gasps]
[Rin] Archer!
Who knew he had it in him
to save someone else?
[Rin shudders]
Why you...
Who the hell said you could lay
a finger on my Archer,
you bastard?
I'd meant to start by putting
an end to that one's suffering.
But someone else wishes
to die first, I see.
[gasps]
Rin, get back.
Tell me,
how are you still here,
and why?
I thought it was obvious.
After the last war
had drawn to a close,
I chose to remain
in this world instead
of disappearing.
[grunts]
That is impossible.
I am the only servant who bathed
in the Grail, you see.
I first donned my physical form
in this time
ten long years ago.
[Gilgamesh] And for that,
I have you to thank,
Saber.
Because of you,
I came to know its true nature
better than anyone.
For as its innards
were strewn across my body,
I caught a glimpse
of what lay within,
and that's when I made
a decision.
That I alone would be
the wielder of the Grail.
The wielder of the Grail?
You jest.
[Gilgamesh] Not at all.
It's the ritual that summons
the Grail that's a sick joke.
A Life‐or‐death battle royale
between seven masters?
A twisted tournament where only
the last master standing wins
the Grail?
All of that nonsense
is just a front.
You see,
in reality,
the Grail has been here
all along.
Before each war,
they prepare the Grail,
and only then do they summon
the seven servants.
Do you see,
king of knights?
What they required was not
the Grail itself
but rather what goes inside
of it.
Those mages did create
the Grail.
That much is true,
but what they could not do
was fill it.
In the end,
they finally decided
to summon the contents
by deceiving the masters
and servants.
After all,
it isn't like
they knew any better.
[gasps]
It looks like you're
finally beginning
to understand.
Good.
[Gilgamesh] They sought only
the purest mana
to fill the Grail.
Only the mightiest souls
would do.
So they scoured the Earth
for the finest specimens
of humanity.
[gasps]
But that's impossible.
That cannot be true!
The more sacrifices,
the better the outcome.
If the souls of six servants
were fed into it,
the result would approach
complete omnipotence.
[Gilgamesh] The mages
would have access
to an almost
inexhaustible source of mana.
If that is true...
That means only a master
can wield the Grail after all.
If the Grail really is
a repository of pure mana...
[Saber] Only a mage
could make use of it.
[grunts]
[chuckles]
Well,
things of that nature
hold no interest for me.
I'm far more concerned
with the Grail's ability
to act as a hole.
What do you mean,
"a hole?"
[Gilgamesh] Think back
to ten years ago.
[dramatic music]
♪♪ ♪♪
When I was only a step away
from finally claiming the Grail,
you intervened and stopped me...
Cleaving the Grail in half
with your holy sword.
Really?
Saber, you destroyed the Grail?
What flowed
from the pieces became
a massive flame that engulfed
the entire city.
[Gilgamesh] I was directly
beneath it at the time,
so naturally my body
was doused in the torrent.
It was then that I learned
the Grail's true nature.
And it was rubbish.
Yet even rubbish has its uses.
It was a weapon
unlike any other.
One perfectly tailored
to killing.
Weapon?
The Holy Grail
that servants brought into
the world is a weapon?
You lie!
Servants are weapons
by our very nature.
This brings that nature
to its logical conclusion.
[Gilgamesh] The Holy Grail
is a gateway to hell,
waiting to unleash billions
of curses
the moment it's opened.
What?
Didn't Kotomine tell you?
It was a Grail that
had already been polluted.
A chalice of greed
that you humans allow
to descend upon the Earth.
One of the greatest evils
that mankind has ever wrought.
Born to curse
and kill their own.
Then what is it you are after?
Could it be?
Yes.
The eradication
of humans in this era.
[gasping]
[gasps]
[Gilgamesh] Though it may have
its moments,
this world is utterly
beyond redemption.
It's populated
with mongrels enjoying
their lives,
which is an affront to the king.
[Rin] Wait.
An affront to the king?
What are you talking about?
What's the point of being king
if you eradicate
all your subjects?
[Gilgamesh]
If humanity dies out,
then so be it.
If they vanish as a result
of their own sins,
their lives had no value
to begin with.
I have no concern
for the mongrels of mankind.
That is reserved for the humans
who have the wherewithal
to survive that hell,
for they alone will be worthy
of my rule.
Those who died last time failed
to live up to my standards.
[gasps]
If they can't even withstand
a little fire,
then the humans of this era
are too delicate.
[grunts]
I really don't care what those
who created the Grail intended.
[Gilgamesh] But it certainly
is useful.
A death sentence
that falls on all humans
without prejudice.
A darkness created by man
and designed
for his own destruction.
A faithful hound
entirely capable
of performing a task
I should really take on myself.
Let's pick up where
we left off last war.
I recall that we
were interrupted
by a mongrel,
but no such interruption today.
[Gilgamesh] Although we do have
a fake
of even lesser quality here
in our midst.
Nevertheless...
[grunts]
It's up to you
to defeat him.
[Shirou] Why did he say that?
What did he mean?
[Gilgamesh] Well, no matter.
I've slain my real target,
so I suppose we can call it
a day.
I wouldn't wanna get soot
all over me,
which should give you
some indication
of how worthless you are.
But I wouldn't dawdle,
if I were you.
It won't be long before
I produce the Grail
and open a hole leading straight
to hell.
If you wish to recover it,
Saber, act now.
This time the Grail is mostly
an afterthought riddled
with defects.
So be quick about it.
Or its contents
will drain out completely.
[panicked gasping]
Ah, dammit!
[groans]
Why does everybody keep getting
in my damn way?
[gasping]
[footsteps approaching]
[grunts]
Hey, you!
Well,
it looks like you're injured.
Excellent work as usual.
Oh, yeah?
And whose fault do you think
that is, huh?
If you weren't
a useless dumb ass,
Lancer wouldn't have stabbed me
in the chest!
I was wondering why
the girl was still alive,
but that explains it.
And what about the priest?
Kotomine is dead and gone!
And Tohsaka just slipped through
my fingers!
All because of you
and that stupid priest!
Yes, well...
[Gilgamesh] A pity,
isn't it?
Yeah, you bet your ass!
You told me we needed her.
We couldn't get our hands
on the Grail without her!
[Gilgamesh] Calm down.
I can produce the Grail.
B‐‐But how's that?
Even if you do have the Grail,
you still have
to provide a vessel.
The priest said that
was the only way!
He said it requires a sacrifice.
He said it wouldn't work
without one.
That won't be a problem.
Any master can be an anchor
and we happen to have one
right here,
don't we?
Huh?
[squelching]
[groans]
[groaning]
[groaning continues]
You wanted to possess the Grail?
Happy to give it to you.
When something's important,
you should keep it close
to you always.
[groaning]
Not a pretty picture,
is it?
Still, it doesn't make it
any less delicious.
At least someone such
as yourself
will spew forth
a fine mud indeed.
I can't wait.
No, it hurts!
Ah, it really hurts!
[groaning]
Help me!
[groans]
No, please, don't go!
Help me!
[screams]
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪